# 3-D Rubik's Cube

3-D Rubik's Cube is an interactive 3-D Rubik's Cube that turns the cube 
based on user input.

## Installation

You will need to install the following:

* Pygame
* OpenGL
* numpy

Use the package manager [pip](https://pip.pypa.io/en/stable/) to install the 
following.
```
python3 -m pip install -U pygame --user
pip install PyOpenGL PyOpenGL_accelerate
pip install numpy
```

## Usage

To run this program, run main.py.

3-D Rubik's Cube takes input through 
[Rubik's Cube Notation](https://ruwix.com/the-rubiks-cube/notation/), with 
the shift key to represent prime (rather than an apostrophe).

For example, to turn right, enter the R key on your keyboard. To turn right,
hold shift while entering theR key on your keyboard.

Enter the space key to scramble the cube, through 25 randomly generated moves.

### Other Features

3-D Rubik's Cube can also take in input through the input.txt file. By typing
moves into input.txt, when the program is run, the cube reads input.txt and 
makes the corresponding moves in the file. When typing, use an apostrophe for 
prime moves. This is helpful for visualizing scrambles that are generated by
sites such as [qqTimer](http://qqtimer.net/). You can simply copy the scramble
into input.txt and see if your scramble matches the one rendered by this 
program.

3-D Rubik's Cube also logs all of the user's moves in the program and outputs
the moves into output.txt. This includes logging the scramble when the user
presses the space to scramble. This is useful for recording moves of a certain
solve or recording the moves of a certain scramble generated by this program.

### Image Album
https://imgur.com/a/KKN76O5

### Contributors
3-D Rubik's cube was written by Alexander Shih, student at the University 
of Toronto, class of 2022. 
